This section of Introduction to Wolfram Notebooksis about using notebooks for presentations,such as showing a notebook as a slideshow.
Here's an example of a typical slideshow,which is essentially just a notebookthat is being displayed one slide at a time.
You can end the slideshow by clicking this buttonin the upper-right corner of the displayand choosing End Presentation from the resulting popup menu,which shows the same notebook in the working formatthat was used for creating the slideshow.
This working slideshow notebookbehaves much like any other notebook,with two essential differencesbeing the presence of cells for marking breaks between slidesand the authoring toolbar at the top of the notebook.
The authoring toolbar is a docked cellwith controls for common operationslike inserting a new slide and starting the presentation.
The authoring toolbar and the Slide Break cellsand all of the other options that make this notebookfunction as an environment for creating a slideshoware set up in the stylesheet.
The stylesheet for this notebookis chosen from the PresenterTools submenuunder the Format ► Stylesheet menu.
All of the stylesheets in the PresenterTools submenuinclude all of the options for creating a slideshow.
In fact, any notebook can be made into a slideshowby simply choosing one of the PresenterTools stylesheetsand inserting slide breaks.
For example, here is that same notebook,but without any of the Slide Break cellsand with the normal Default stylesheet,which is the item that is checked in the stylesheet submenu.
Further down this menu is the PresenterTools submenu,and below that is another submenu called SlideShow.
The SlideShow submenu is includedto support an older slideshow systemthat has been availablein Wolfram Notebooks for many years.
But this section is about the newer PresenterTools system,which is an enhanced version of the older system.
To make this notebook into a slideshow,we will choose one of the PresenterTools stylesheets.
A convenient way to insert slide breaksis to first bring up the authoring toolbar,which is made visible by changingthe screen environment to Slideshow Working,using the Screen Environment submenu under the Format menu.
Clicking the Insert New Slide buttonin the authoring toolbar opens a short popup menuoffering to insert a slide break with or without a background.
Either choice inserts the slide break,which is marked by a new cellwith a cell style called slideshow navigation bar.
You can also create a new slideby copying and pasting the Slide Break cellfrom elsewhere in the notebook.
For example, we can select the Slide Break celland the Section cell below it,and then copy that selection and paste those cells elsewherein the notebook to get a new slide.
This sort of editing is also a way of deleting slidesor deleting slide breaks.
For example, to delete the slide that was just added,we can select the Slide Break celland the contents of the slide and delete that selection.
Another way of inserting slide breaksthroughout the notebookis to click the Slide Break Defaults buttonin the authoring toolbar,which opens a dialog boxwhere you can choose slide breaks based on cell styles.
For example, choosing Section in this dialog boxand clicking the Set button inserts a slide breakbefore every Section cell in the notebook.
If the notebook is already organized into sections,this is a fast way of turning the notebook into a slideshow.
Rather than converting a default notebookinto a slideshow,in many casesthe easiest way to create a new slideshowis to start by choosing New ► Presenter Notebookfrom the File menu,which brings up this dialog boxfor choosing from the same set of PresenterTools stylesheets,which are here referred to as themes.
From this dialog box you can also choosefrom various default fonts and color schemes.
After making some choices,click the Create button to get a slideshow templatewith the chosen PresenterTools stylesheetand the screen environment set to Slideshow Workingand the authoring toolbar at the top and several slideswith some generic content already filled in.
This notebook can then be edited much like any other notebookto fill in the contents of the slideshow.
Several of the buttons in the authoring toolbarare generic controls for fonts and stylingthat could apply to any notebook.
For example, this button brings up a menufor choosing cell style,which are the same styles that can be chosenfrom the Style submenu under the Format menu.
Next to the cell style menuis an interesting button that can be usedto add font choices to all cells of the selected style.
For example,after setting this text cell to use large, bold characters,clicking that button has the effectof applying those options to all of the text cellsin the notebook.
This worked by editing the private stylesheetfor this notebook.
For example,choosing Edit Stylesheet from the Format menushows the private stylesheet for this notebookwith the new local style definitionsthat specify large, bold characters for the text.
You could achieve the same effectby editing the stylesheet directly,so that button in the authoring toolbaressentially providesone-click editing of the stylesheet.
One button that is worth saying a few words aboutis this button, which opens a popup menufor making font sizes larger or smaller.
To describe what that menu does, it is helpful to first bring upa feature of all PresenterTools stylesheets,which is dynamic resizing of contentdepending on the size of the window.
For example, if the size of this window is changed,the font sizes change, and in fact the sizes of imagesand almost all of the other contentwithin the notebook also changes based on the size of the window.
You could get the same effect in any notebookby using scaled sizes for fonts and images and so on,but unlike most other stylesheets, with PresenterTools stylesheetsall of the options settings for that resizingare already part of the stylesheet.
Dynamic resizing like thisis helpful for the common situationwhere you want to enlarge the window for presentationor where the presentation is done on a different display systemwhere window sizes might be different.
Returning now to the specific issue of font sizes,if font size is specified by selecting some textand choosing a font size from the Size submenuunder the Format menu,the size of that text remains constantas the size of the window is changed,since that size setting takes precedenceover the dynamic resizing system from the stylesheet.
The font size buttonin the authoring toolbar works differently.
For example, selecting some text and then choosing a new sizefrom the popup menu in the authoring toolbarcauses the size of the selected textto be scaled up or down by the chosen number of steps,and the resized text does change sizebased on the size of the window.
Similar issues also apply to images and to graphics.
For example, selecting this imagechanges the authoring toolbarto show a button for locking the current size of the imageor letting the size of the image changewith the size of the window.
Choosing Lock to current sizesets the image size option for that selectionto the current fixed value,which results in an image that, like the text shown earlier,remains at a fixed sizewhen the size of the window is changed.
So while dynamic resizing is the default,you can get fixed sizes by specifying sizesfor individual selections.
Other buttons in the authoring toolbarinclude the Start Presentation button,which is the button to click to start the presentation,which we will do in a moment.
The first button below the Start Presentation buttonbrings up a palette of buttonsshowing the outline of the slideshow.
These buttons can be clickedto navigate between slides in the notebook.
This palette also includes a refresh buttonto update the palette if slides are added or removed.
The button next to that opens the Side Notes palette,which provides a way of adding notesthat are intended for the presenterand that will be shown in this palette,but that are not displayed in the presentation.
To add a side note,click the Add note to slide button,which inserts a cell called a SideNote cellinto the slideshow notebook.
This cell can be edited just like any other cell.
Clicking the refresh button updates the Side Notes palettewith any new side notes.
Clicking this last button opens a popup menu.
Choosing Style Palette from that menuopens a palette of buttonslike the buttons in the authoring toolbar.
Choosing Presentation Controlsopens a dialog box for customizing the computer keysfor navigating between slides.
Choosing Theme Options opens the same dialog boxthat was used initially for choosing a stylesheet.
So if you wanted to change the stylesheetfrom the stylesheet that was chosen initially,you can do that here,or equivalently, by choosing a different stylesheetfrom the Stylesheet submenu.
For example, this changes the fontsand the color scheme of the presentationby changing the stylesheet.
To start the slideshow,we can click the Start Presentation button.
At the end of the Start Presentation buttonis a popup menu for other screen environments.
Scrolling Presentation gives a displayfor scrolling through the slidesrather than clicking from slide to slide,and Slideshow Presentationswitches the screen environment to Slideshow Presentation,which removes the authoring toolbarand the Slide Break cells and the SideNote cells.
Clicking the main Start Presentation buttondoes all of thatand also switches to full-screen display.
After the presentation is started,you can move between slidesusing keys on the computer keyboardor the corresponding keys on a separate controller.
Within the slideshow, there is a buttonin the upper-right corner of the windowthat can be clickedto open a popup menu with other controls.
There are choices here for moving to the first slideor to the next slide and so on.
Choosing Toggle Navigation Bar adds on-screen controlsat the top of the window for moving between slides.
Choosing Toggle Style Tools opens the same paletteof style controls that was shown earlier.
In Slideshow Working screen environment,this palette isn't usually needed since the same controlsare available in the authoring toolbar,but here this palette provides a way of editing the slideshowfrom within the actual presentation,rather than from the working notebook environment.
Choosing Side Notesopens the Side Notes palette to show side notes,which you could display on a different monitoror on a separate tablet or other device.
You can also click within this paletteto move between slides.
Choosing Slide Outline opens the Slide Outline palettethat was shown earlier,which provides yet another way of moving between slides.
Going beyond a basic slideshow like this,there's an unlimited range of possibilitiesfor what is displayed in a presentationand for how that display is controlled.
To illustrate some of the possibilities,consider this animation,which is used for illustrating a topicthat comes up during this particular presentation.
During a presentation,the presenter can control this animationusing the controls in the display.
There are, however, situations where it would be betterto have the controls somewhere else,such as in a separate controller.
There are several ways to do that,one of which is shown here.
This example shows a display in the presentationthat depends on a dynamically updated variableand a button in a separate notebookfor controlling the value of that variable.
This allows the presentationto be controlled by a separate controller,which is useful in settingswhere it is inconvenient for the presenterto click on buttons in the display.
Wolfram Notebooks support a whole collection of featuresfor programmatic control of the display,so it is possible to design presentationswith complex animations or sequences of images,and to program all of that in advanceso that it can be shown during the presentationwith the click of a button on an off-screen controller.
That's the end of the examples for this section.
In the Wolfram documentation, you can find more informationby searching for presentations or slideshows,and in particular from this pageon preparing and giving presentations,which includes links to workflow guides like this one,with step-by-step instructionsfor the operations that came up in this section.
